# League-of-Legends-Winrate-Normalizer
## Normalization Methodology
This is a simple method for normalizing a champion's winrate with respect to the meta. On most LoL data websites, a champion's listed winrate is, as one would expect, the total number of games they won divided by the total number of games in which they were played. Despite being the community's predominant metric for gauging champion strength, it is flawed when considered on its own, because it only considers the games in which the champion was actually picked. This is problematic because players' awareness of counter matchups and synergies introduces a significant selection bias to the winrate. For example, Malphite mid is about 4 times more likely to be picked in games where Zed mid is on the other team than in general, due to his perceived (and actual) strength in the matchup. 

Reformulating the previous definition of winrate, a champion's winrate is the sum of their winrate against a champion times the number of games against that champion, over all other champions in a particular role, divided by the total number of games the original champion was played in that role. The proposed normalization would replace 'the number of games against that champion' with 'the number of games that champion was picked in that role', and 'the total number of games the original champion was played in that role' with 'the total number of games in that role (i.e. at all)', considered against each roles (with the original champion still in their original role), and repeating for allied champions. Expressed mathematically,
$$\textrm{observed winrate} = \sum_{i} \frac{\textrm{winrate against lane opponent i}\times \textrm{number of games against lane opponent i}}{\textrm{total number of games}}$$ The proposed method of normalization is 
$$\textrm{adjusted winrate} = \textrm{observed winrate}-(\sum_{j\in \textrm{roles}}(\textrm{observed winrate}-\sum_{i}\frac{\textrm{winrate vs. i in role j}\times \textrm{number of games vs. i in role j}}{\textrm{total number of games}}))+$$ $$(\sum_{j\in \textrm{roles}\setminus \textrm{role}}(\textrm{observed winrate}-\sum_{i}\frac{\textrm{winrate w/ i in role j}\times \textrm{number of games w/ i in role j}}{\textrm{total number of games}})))$$

This generates a new winrate for each champion which is aware of the meta on a macro-level, but is blind to micro-level counter/synergy decisions, i.e. players' tendency to disproportionately play champions with or against other champions. While this methdology succeeds in creating a draft-behavior-agnostic winrate, it still fails as a measure of champion strength, as champions actually should be disproportionately picked in good situations (which, ironically, the original winrate does capture to some degree). An accurate measure of champion strength could be defined as their maximally inflated winrate, assuming both teams are drafting optimally; I will attempt to define this using available data in further work.
